//



TEAM AGREEMENT GUIDELINES

For

Pied Piper


Version 0.1 (DRAFT)




Prepared by:

Christopher Haywood (CS)(Scrum Master) n7242123
Isaiah Dunrobin (IS) (Product Owner)  n9670441
Seok Yoon (CS) (Developer) n8806781
Ramon Dickins (IS) (Developer) n10014594
Rory Eiffe (IS) (Developer) n9482725




Prepared for:

Tara Capel

tara.capel@hdr.qut.edu.au









21/02/2018



Sign-off and Approvals

Team Agreement Sign-Off:  
The undersigned members of this team agree to abide by this team agreement to ensure the successful completion of the Pied Piper project to meet the client’s requirements and timeframes.
Person’s name & student number
Signature
Date
Christopher Haywood

21/02/2018
Isaiah Dunrobin

21/02/2018
Seok Yoon

21/02/2018
Ramon Dickins

21/02/2018
Rory Eiffe

21/02/2018






Tutor Approval







Table of Contents




Sign-off and Approvals	ii
1	Introduction	
2	Team Agreement	
2.1	Team Principles and Processes	1
2.2	Non-Compliance	1
2.3	Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management	1
3.	Conclusion	
References	1
Appendix – Team Agreement Guidelines	1
Possible Topics for Agreement Principles	1
Communication and Operational Process Topics	1
Defining Major and Minor Non-Compliance	1
Penalties for Major and Minor Non-Compliance	1




Introduction

The purpose of this document is to discuss and agree on the operating norms (principles and communication processes) for Pied Piper who are a team of students in IFB299 Application Design and Development.  

The aim of the team agreement is to describe the principles underpinning effective teamwork and how they will be applied by this team during the Pinelands Music School project.  In this way the agreement provides a communication tool and contract between team members and their tutor regarding their obligations, responsibilities and activities to ensure successful processes, product, and outcome.  

This document includes:
High level principles contributing to an effective team;
Agreed communication and operational processes to action the principles.
Definitions of minor and major non-compliance and examples of instances that may constitute a breach of the agreement’s conditions.
Dispute resolution and conflict management processes.

Team Agreement 

All team members must have participated in the formulation of this Team Agreement and are committed to abide by it.

Team Principles and Processes


Principle: Show respect for one another.
Rationale: A healthy professional atmosphere will facilitate positive team outcomes.
Operational Processes: 
Listen to each other's ideas. 
Avoid abusive language. 
Try not to dominate the other team members. 
Give equal speaking time to all members.


Principle: Active Participation by every member
Rationale: Fair and equal effort put in to the project by all members
Operational Processes: 
Attend and participate in team meetings.
The team will seek a consensus to divide up tasks fairly between members.
Work is done on the project outside of meeting times.
Team members will be prepared for team and client meetings.


Principle: Team members will share work on digital platforms
Rationale: Consistent documentation and transparent progression
Operational Processes:  
The group will use ‘Google Drive’ to share and edit documents. 
Updates to the project’s code will be managed on Github.
The projects goals will undergo peer review to help reach a consensus 
about the project plans.
Google hangouts will be used to conduct online team meetings.






Principle: Constant Peer review and collaboration 
Rationale: To increase the quality of work produced by the group
Operational Process:
Work will be proofread by other team members. 
Before merging any code it must be reviewed by at least one computer science student.
Have open discussions so that the group can target problems and find ways to improve upon them.

Principle: Strive for a high quality of work
Rationale: The work will be a level of quality that the group and client are satisfied with
Operational Process:
The group will take on client feedback as well as review plans, designs and deliverables to better suit the customers needs.
Uploading work to share with others.
Proofread and peer review any work before submitting.

Principle: Take steps to deal with poor quality or late work
Rational: Avoid disappointing the customer and sewing discontent within the group
Operational Process: 
Additional meetings when deemed necessary by the group.
Friendly discussions about what could be done to increase the quality of work.
Track task progress and implement plans to meet deadlines.

Principle: The team will intervene when individual members don’t contribute
Rational: The team has zero tolerance for non performance
Operational Process:
Issues of non performance will be identified by peer discussion.
The team will intervene to stop underperformance from team members by taking steps to help them improve.
Team members will acquire strikes for issues of major non compliance with the team principles.
If a team members continually underperforms and acquires three ‘strikes’ then the group will be forced to consider penalties for the offending team member.




Principle: Manage & resolve differences of opinion 
Rational: Healthy and constructive conflict is a component of high-functioning teams. 
Operational Process: 
Taking votes to make sure each team member’s opinion is heard
Discuss the pros and cons of all suggestions
Ensure all members of the group actively participate in critical decisions made, preventing more assertive members of the group from lopsided dictation.
When a group decision cannot be finalised due to disagreements, a compromise will be made. 

Non-Compliance

The team defines minor non-compliance as issues that are isolated occurrences, that do not affect the customer, creates little or no disruption/waste, the issue can be rectified quickly/easily/cheaply. Minor non-compliance can lead to major non-compliance. Examples of minor non-compliance are as follow:

Not sharing your full work with others
When working on a particular part of the assessment, not sharing with others which may affect the progress of other’s work.
MIA (Missing in action)
Suddenly disappearing without any notification to others
No communication
When communication goes silent with a particular student, the workload will be distributed fairly amongst present group members.

The team defines major non-compliance as problems that affect the schedule of the entire group members, cause major delays to your delivery schedule, cause reworking the project to be done and repeated occurrences of the same minor issue: 
Absent without notification
When communication goes silent they will be absent without notification
Any delays that affect the scheduling of work
Without sharing the student’s full work with others, the progress of the entire project may be delayed
Poor quality of work
Without proper peer review the quality of work will be decreased



Penalties for non-compliance
On major non compliance
The student will forfeit their percentage which is relevant to the particular project part they were assigned to others


Dispute Resolution & Conflict Management
Minor:
The team will attempt to contact the student who has breached any minor non-compliances up to 1 week
If the the breacher does not communicate back by the agreed date by other group members they will be given a theoretical strike. 
Major:
If a particular student accumulates 3 strikes or has been decided by the majority of group members that he has breached any of the major non-compliances, the student will automatically forfeit their percentage of work for the section the breacher was working in to be shared equally to the other students or to the member who takes up the additional task.

3.	Conclusion

This document has articulated the high level and operational processes agreed to by Pied Piper.  This team agreement will apply for the duration of the Pinelands Music school Project.  To meet the objectives of the project and demonstrate their abilities as IT professionals, team Pied Piper will implement the principles, processes and management activities described.


References
https://www.qualitysystems.com/blog/major-vs-minor-nonconformity


//